I'm Vicki MacDonald and I'm at Holy Trinity Church, Llandudno, for the longest yarn.
And I'm going to speak to Beryl Evans and she's going to talk about her father during
the war.
Thank you, Beryl.
So, have you got lots of stories about your father?
Well, just one major story.
My father was in the regular army in the 30s, came out in 1938, then was recalled for the
war.
So the actual D-Day training was, I believe, down in Aldershot.
Also my mother's sister, my uncle, was with him.
So they were given a day's notice, 24 hours leave, to do what they want before they finally
went across to France.
So what they did was they got up to London, spoke to the train driver.
The train driver said, hop in the guards van, I'll drop you.
He was on the London to Chester or whatever, Liverpool train.
Jump in the guards van, I will drop you off at the nearest halt station near O'Haben.
So that's what they did.
They were dropped off roughly, say, 11 to 11.30 that evening near Rosamedri somewhere
at a small halt.
He said, I will be returning in the morning and I will pick you up here.
So what I actually remember is I wake up roughly 11 o'clock.
This is what my mother's always told me, and I remember the time we heard knocking at the
window.
We were in a detached house in Acrobatie because my mother had moved back to the family home
for the war.
So what it was, it was my father and my uncle having walked from the nearest station, throwing
pebbles at the window to wake us up.
So my mother had the last few hours with my father.
And then the next day they went back to Aldershot.
And the train stopped for them?
Yeah, it slowed up at the small halt somewhere near Rosamedri.
They jumped in the guards van and they returned back to London.
That was a very dangerous escapade, wasn't it?
It was.
Because they went AWOL, presumably.
Obviously they were in uniform and that's why the guardsman understood.
And the train driver.
So they both went across to Caen, it was, on Caen beach.
My father was badly wounded, badly shell-shocked.
My uncle didn't make it.
Goodness.
And then I do remember my mum and my auntie being in mourning going for my uncle's funeral.
But my father was badly shell-shocked, came back.
He went into a Red Cross hospital in a hall in Warwickshire.
The hall is still there, Shugbury Hall.
It was the 14th baronet now.
So when he fully recovered, he was given a job and a house down in Warwickshire.
So that's my story.
He didn't go back to war then?
No, no, no.
He was too badly injured.
So he was injured on the beach?
In the beaches in Caen, yes.
How was he shot?
He was shot, yes.
He had a wound on his right side.
And so after the war, did that problem bother him?
Badly shell-shocked.
It took him a few years and my mother said he never really recovered.
And then eventually...
And of course, it was his brother who died?
His brother-in-law.
His brother-in-law died?
Yes, yes.
Were they on the same beach together?
They were, yes, yes.
How very sad for him.
Yes, my father, my uncle was in the musical side of the army, so he was, I forget what
the term is now.
Bandsman.
Yes, and their duty was during the war to collect the bodies off the beach.
With stretchers, yes.
Yes, bare stretchers, yes, yes.
So that's what my uncle was doing and he got shot.
And he got shot and killed.
Yes, yes.
How very sad.
He never came back.
So I do remember that because I was actually born in 1940, so I was four when all this
was going on.
So yes, that must have impacted on you at form, wasn't it?
Yes, yes.
Great sadness.
But what an extraordinary journey that they did.
Yes, yes.
I mean, they would have been absent without leave, wouldn't they?
Well, they were given 24 hours.
Oh, they were given 24 hours.
But that was only really for the vicinity around.
Just to go have a drink in the local pub.
Yes, but no, they thought, you know.
How prescient of your uncle to come and, you know, maybe he perhaps knew that he was going
to die.
It's extraordinary.
You don't know what was going through their minds, do you?
They probably did think that.
Well, if we don't come back, we'll try and make it home one last time.
Yes.
And what a journey.
Yes, yes.
That is the most amazing story.
Yes.
Thank you very much for sharing it.
That's so kind.